before we start the video I just want to
say to you the subscribers that I have
that I'm not going to keep doing camera
videos like this this is just you know
because I got a new 550d I'm a little
obsessed with it right now when I get
back to America in less than a week now
we're gonna start making some awesome
videos so stay subscribed alright in
this video we're going to talk about the
differences between the Canon 550d and
the Canon 7d and you've probably already
all seen the YouTube videos where they
say that they're basically it's the same
but the 7d has more features but in this
video we're going to show you what those
different features are and how they
comply to photographers versus
videographers alright and the first
thing you'll notice about the 7d is that
it is quite a bit larger than the 550d
and this is what it looks like without
the battery grip installed okay the
first feature that is a little bit
different on the cameras is the white
balance and on the 7d all you have to do
is hit that button right there and it
brings up that menu and it has custom
just like the 550d but if you scroll
over to the right that has the Kelvin
settings it goes from 2500 all the way
up to 10,000 Kelvin and the 550d does
not have that feature and on the 550d
when you're a movie mode you press the Q
button to bring up your low menu there
and then you just scroll with this
button here and it just has all the
presets like that and the custom mode
alright and one feature that the 7d has
that the 550 doesn't even have at all is
the leveler you can use it in video mode
it comes up as an overlay while you're
in Live View and you can use that when
you're on the fly or on the tripod or
whatever and it also has it in full
screen on picture mode switch over to
picture mode and pull it up in full
screen it does horizontal and vertical
okay on the 7d but when you're recording
in video mode and you have live view up
you can you're in full manual mode you
can change the aperture by use of the
aperture wheel just like that which was
a lot easier on the on the 550d what you
have to do is hold down the AV button
right there above the key hold it down
and then use this to scroll change the
aperture so it's a little bit easier on
the 70 on the 7d switching from picture
mode to movie mode there's a little bit
simpler than it is on the 550d it's just
that little switch there on the 550d
it's you turn the top on here all the
way around to movie mode so it is a
little bit easier on the 7d okay on the
7d when you want to record in manual
mode all you have to do is rotate the
dial to the standard manual mode and be
in your video mode when you want to
shoot an automatic mode you can just
rotate that dial there to P and and that
will give you a full automatic movie
capture mode whereas on the 550d or t2
lying you have to go into the menu and
change the settings from automatic to
manual or vice versa
alright that's all the differences
between the two cameras as far as video
goes so now we're going to show you the
differences that would concern
photographers and one of the big
features about the 7d that's differ from
the 550d is that it shoots at 8 frames
per second versus a 550 V which shoots
at 3.5 frames per second another thing
about the 7d is that when in picture
mode it can crank up you can crank up
the shutter speed all the way to 8
thousand on the 550d it can be cranked
up to 4,000 in video mode and that's the
same regardless of what moderna can
still it's only four thousand it does
not go up to 8,000 all in all it's more
customizable you can see here that I've
got a lot of options in my
in my menus I can actually change the
buttons what they do one other thing to
note is that the 7d has a built-in speed
light transmitter which means it can
communicate with canons speed light for
30s and 580 X's on the bottom right here
you'll see there's this little cap peel
that wedding you'll see a little set of
contacts you can get a wireless
transmitter which means that you can
shoot directly from here to an FTP site
or to a computer located somewhere else
in a studio or something like that you
can control the 70 from a laptop
wirelessly which is pretty cool alright
last but not least the features of the
two cameras the 7d uses compact flash
which is faster and the 550d uses SD
cards and they try out they try to tell
you that you need a class 6 or higher to
shoot video but my own personal
experiences if you get this brand
sandesh extreme you can shoot actually
in class 2 just fine okay and that's all
the features that we can find difference
between the two cameras I'm sure there's
a couple more that we missed but
basically the 550d and the 7d both shoot
the same quality of video and they shoot
the same quality of photographs so if
you just want a DSLR for video only the
550d would probably be the better choice
because the same quality as a 7d but if
you're more of a photographer definitely
go with the 7b as it has quite a few
more features than the 550 so thanks for
watching